.TH "ENGLISH KABBALAH" 1 "September 2012" "eng-qbl 0.1.3" "English Kabbalah"
.SH NAME
The English Kabbalah suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gematria
[\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB--count\fR]]
\fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
.RS
  [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB--count\fR]]
\fB\-n\fR | \fB--gemval\fR \fInumericvalue\fR
.RE
.PP
.B temurah
[\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-a\fR | \fB--all\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
.RS
 [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-f\fR | \fB--forward-avgad\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
 [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-r\fR | \fB--backward-avgad\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
 [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-t\fR | \fB--atbash\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
 [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-l\fR | \fB--albam\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
 [\fB\-s\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} | \fB--search=\fR{\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR}]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR]
\fB\-b\fR | \fB--aikbekar\fR \fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.RE
.PP
.B notarikon
\fB\-f\fR | \fB--file\fR {\fIFILE\fR|\fIURL\fR} \fIacronym\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
English Kabbalah is a collection of command-line applications that
perform various coding/ciphering tasks, along with searching a given
file for the results thereof.
.PP
.SS Background
.PP
Kabbalah is often defined as an esoteric discipline or school of
philosophy. Various descriptions exist, however, one of the most
overlooked aspects or practices in Kabbalah (and probably the most
fundamental) is an area known as the "Literal Kabbalah."
.PP
This area is often described as having concerns with the
relationship between letters and numbers, however, this is a very
general description of what in actually is a sophisticated
coding/ciphering system. All the methods of the Literal Kabbalah
were used, in various forms, for several coding/ciphering
activities, most notably in military intelligence, and espionage.
.SH EXAMPLES
The English Kabbalah suite are command-line applications designed to
be modular, which can be used in shell scripting to yield complex
results.
.PP
An ouput from one application can be piped to the input of another. This
example attempts to find words within the book of Genesis of equal English
Gematria value to that of the Forward-shift Avgad of "Acam":
.PP
.RS
\fBtemurah -f\fR Acam | \fBgematria -s\fR ./bible-books/Genesis.txt
.RE
.PP
This attempts to find words within the book of Genesis of equal English
Gematria value of the difference between the value of "Love" and "God":
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria -s\fR ./bible-books/Genesis.txt -s ./bible-books/Exodus.txt \fB-n\fR $(( $(\fBgematria\fR Love) - $(\fBgematria\fR God) ))
.RE
.PP
This attempts to find words within the book of Genesis of equal
English Gematria value to that of "Josha" where each result is
enciphered in Atbash:
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria -s\fR ./bible-books/Genesis.txt Joshua | while read $result; do \fBtemurah -t\fR $result; done
.RE
.SH NOTES ON USAGE
One of the difficulties in this English Kabbalah system is the generation of
meaningful results. Because this coding/ciphering system was
created at a time when languages were probably still developing,
such a system would enabled the creation of new words with different
applications while maintaining comparable properties with other
words. Although this is rather difficult with a language such as
English, it is possible for meaningful result to be generated using
a combination of decoding/deciphering techniques.
.PP
However, this system is not relegated only to finding codes and
ciphers, but in the task of creating them. This would be useful for
any writer, especially those of fictional works, to encode/encipher
key words or phrases to add new dimensions of mystery within their
works.
.PP
It is intended that this suite will aid the student of Kabbalah, or
any one interested enough, to discover for him/herself any
underlying mystery of meanings within texts considered holy or
otherwise, and to find entertainment in the attempts thereof.
.SH BUGS
Report technical problems using these programs to the author.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marc Sylvestre <marc.sylvestre@manhydra.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR gematria (1),
.IR temurah (1),
.IR notarikon (1)
