.TH "ENGLISH GEMATRIA" 1 "September 2012" "eng-qbl 0.1.0" "English Kabbalah"
.SH NAME
English Gematria \- Part of the English Kabbalah suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gematria
[\fB\-s\fR \fIFILE\fR | \fB--search=\fR\fIFILE\fR] 
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR] 
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB--count\fR]] 
\fIWord\fR | \fI'Phrase'\fR
.br
.RS
  [\fB\-s\fR \fIFILE\fR | \fB--search=\fR\fIFILE\fR] 
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR | \fB--phrases=\fR\fInum\fR] 
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB--count\fR]] 
\fB\-n\fR | \fB--gemval\fR \fInumericvalue\fR
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Outputs an English Gematria value for an inputted word or phrase. Outputs a 
lists of words or phrases from a given file, where the English Gematria 
value of each word or phrase is equal to that of the inputted word 
or phrase.
.PP
.SS Background
.PP
Gematria is a form of numerology in where the numeric value of words 
or phrases, based on the sum of each letter's own value, were 
compared to discover their relationship. The word "gematria" comes 
from the Greek word "geometria" from which our English word 
"geometry" is derived. Interesting to note, "Grammetria" would have 
been more apt as it accurately describes this practice as measuring 
the relationship between words (Gramma) rather than the measurement 
of the world (Geo).
.PP
Ancient languages such as Phoenician, Greek, and Hebrew did not have 
separate character symbols to represent numbers, and hence, used 
their alphabet. As an example, based on the spelling using Hebrew 
alphabets, the Hebrew word for the unmentionable name of "God 
(IHVH)" is 26. In Hebrew mysticism, it is told that "God" is both 
"one" and "love." Hebrew for "one" is "achd (echad)" which has the 
value of 13. Hebrew for "Love" is "ahbh (aheva)" and is also 13. 
From this, it can be concluded that "God" (26) is both "one" and 
"love" (13 + 13).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-s\fR | \fB--search\fR
Optional: Text file in which to search for word or phrase of equivalent gematria value.
.TP
\fB-p\fR | \fB--phrases\fR
Optional: To conduct phrase search, where each resulting phrase has \fInum\fR words.
.TP
\fB-c\fR | \fB--count\fR
Optional: Output the number of finds (words or phrases) only.
.SH EXAMPLES
The numeric values resulting from English Gematria is based on a 
system of multiplying the number six(6) to each letter according to 
their position in the alphabet. This system was proposed by J.R. 
Church, a Baptist minister, to simulate the numbering system of the 
Sumerian language. This is only significant because Church 
discovered that the phrase, "Mark of Beast," equals 666 based on his 
studies of Revelation 13.
.PP
A simple and common way to use English Gematria is to pass a word or 
phrase to retrieve its value:
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria\fR Jesus
.RE
.PP
Phrases should always be enclosed in single or double quotes:
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria\fR 'all roads lead to Rome'
.br
\fBgematria\fR "the star in the sky"
.RE
.PP
The most useful method of English Gematria is to find words or 
phrases of equal English Gematria value within text files:
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria -s\fR /path/to/textfile people
.br
\fBgematria -s\fR /path/to/textfile \fB-p\fR 3 'of mice and men'
.RE
.PP
A specified value can also be passed to find words or phrases of 
equal English Gematria value:
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria -s\fR /path/to/textfile \fB-n\fR 86
.RE
.PP
As a command-line application, English Gematria can be used in shell 
scripting to yield complex results. As indicated on the relationship 
between "God," "one," and "love," above, the combined values of both 
"one" and "love" equals the value of "God." This alludes to the 
notion that if the values of two or more words or phrases are 
combined, they serve as probable properties of a word or phrase 
whose value equal that of the combined.
.PP
The English Gematria value for "Love" is 324. For "God" is 156. 
Because the value of "Love" is greater than that of "God," we can 
hypothesize that "God" is a property or aspect of "Love." In the 
following example, we will attempt to find words whose English 
Gematria value is equal to the difference between "Love" and "God":
.PP
.RS
\fBgematria -s\fR ./bible-books/Genesis.txt \fB-n\fR $(( $(\fBgematria\fR Love) - $(\fBgematria\fR God) ))
.br
is
.br
man
.br
air
.br
Eden
.br
Madai
.br
Dedan
.br
flee
.br
feel
.br
Edar
.br
balm
.br
bank
.br
Ohad
.br
Belah
.RE
.PP
From the result generated, one can take note of the word "is" which 
aptly fits the context by saying, "God is Love." Also by taking 
note of the word "man" we can surmise that the relationship between 
"God" and "man" is "Love."
.SH BUGS
Report technical problems using these programs to the author.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marc Sylvestre <marc.sylvestre@manhydra.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR eng-qbl (1),
.IR temurah (1),
.IR notarikon (1)
